How much time does it take to obtain a National Identity Card under normal service?
There are 16 steps in the process preparing of a National Identity card, from submitting the application to the preparation of National Identity Card. In all cases except in cases of issues with the information/documents submitted, the National Identity Card will be mailed to the applicant’s personal address within 03 months of handing over the application.



How long does it take for the National Identity Card to be processed, after applying for a national Identity Card under one day service?
There are 16 steps in the process of preparing a National Identity card under a one-dayservice, from submission of the application to preparation of the National Identity card. In all cases,except in the case of problems with the information submitted, the National Identity Card can be obtained within 3 hours of handing over the application.


How has the National Identity card number changed, when obtaining the new National Identity card? Will it be a problem to changingto a 12 digits number for my professional/banking activities
In the new Smart National Identity card, your National Identity card number consists of 12 numbers. Accordingly, the letter v or the letter x at the end of the old National Identity card number is removed, and "0" is added before the last 04 numbers, and the National Identity card stars with the year of birth. That is starting at 19.
Example - Old N.I.C. number – 855420159v New N.I.C. number - 19 85542 0 159

In addition to your new ID number, the old National ID number is printed on the back of the National ID card and all government agencies including banks/financial institutions, have been informed about the change in the National ID numbers. Hence, there will be no problem regarding verifying your identity.



Why does the National Identity card number change completely after obtaining dual citizenship under 19(2)? Will I be notified in writing of such a change?
A person who has obtained dual citizenship under 19(2) of Citizenship Act No.18 of 1948, loses his/her Sri Lankan citizenship by birth, and consequently, his/her National Identity card number used so far will also be cancelled.
Therefore, you have to apply for a National Identity card subsequent to obtaining dual citizenship, and the National Identity card you receive after obtaining dual citizenship will have a different number than the previously used number, and a letter of confirmation of the number will be issued by the Department for Registration of Persons.


I have obtained dual citizenship under 19(3). Do I have to reapply for a National identity card subsequent to obtaining dual citizenship? Will my National Identity card number change after reapplying?
No.
Since your Sri Lankan citizenship by birth does not get cancelled if you have acquired dual citizenship under 19(3) of the Citizenship Act, it is not mandatory to reapply for a National Identity card after acquiring a dual citizenship certificate. When you apply for a new National Identity card due to an amendment or misplacement, the previously used number will not be changed, and you will be able to obtain the new smart card comprising 12 digits.




Internal affairs


The Internal Affairs Unit of the Department for Registration of Persons was established as per the circular No.PS/SB/Circular/2/2025 dated 18 February 2025, issued by the Secretary to the President.

Submission of Complaints

Complaints regarding an officer of the Department for Registration of Persons or regarding the services provided by the Department for Registration of Persons as well as suggestions for improving its services should be submitted to the Internal Affairs Unit through the below mentioned methods.

Email :-iau_unit@drp.lk
Telephone No :-011-5226176
Internal TP No :-1963
Whatapp No :-070-6149916
Postal Address :-Department for Registration of Persons, 10th Floor, Suhurupaya, Sri Subhuthipura Road, Battaramulla

Key Objectives of the Internal Affairs Unit

Prevent corruption in the institution and cultivate a culture of integrity.
Ensure transparency and accountability in all activities of the institution and ensure public access to information regarding institutional practices and decisions.
Promote ethical governance within the institution.
Develop a secure and accessible system to encourage reporting misconduct, protect whistleblowers and maintain confidentiality.
Support legal enforcement through collaboration with law enforcement agencies and the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption (CIAВОС).
Composition of the Internal Affairs Unit

Position held at Unit	Name	Permanent Position	Email Address
1. Head of the Unit	Mrs. K.H.J.L. Senaratna	Additional Commissioner General	jayaminisenarathna.acg2@gmail.com
2. Integrity Officer	Mrs. Lakmali A. Jayasinghe	Commissioner (Development and Research)	com_rd@drp.lk
3. Member	Mrs. R.M.M.R. Rathnayaka	Management Service Officer	ramyarathnayaka1967@gmail.com
4. Member	Mrs. P.P. Waruni Samanthika	Management Service Officer	warunisamanthikapp@gmail.com
5. Member	Mr. A.A.C.N. Bandara	Management Service Officer	chathurabamarasingha@gmail.com
6. Member	Mrs. K.P.S.R.Wijethunga	Management Service Officer	shalanikaw@gmail.com
7. Member	Mr. A.W.M. Waris	Management Service Officer	mwarish@gmail.com
8. Member	Mrs. P.A.S.Pathiraja	Development Officer	Sagarika.pathiraja@gmail.com
9. Member	Mr. R.J.H. Wijewardena	Management Service Officer	julanhansakanet@gmail.com
10. Member	Mrs. E.M. Batagama	Management Service Officer	erandiymadushanka@gmail.com
11. Member	Mr. M.K. Gamage	Development Officer	mkgamage1975@gmail.com
12. Member	Mr. P.A.D. Sameera	Development Officer	dsamee506@gmail.com
13. Member	Mrs. D.N.U. Wickramasinghe	Development Officer	uraniwickramasinghe@gmail.com
14. Member	Mr. R.A.T. Omesh	Development Officer	thisalomesh1992@gmail.com
15. Member	Mr.A.K.B.S. Deshapriya	Development Officer	akbsdeshapriya@gmail.com
16. Member	Mrs. S.T. Uggakumbura	Development Officer	shiwanthiukgahakumbura@gmail.com
17. Member	Mr. Y.M.D.D. Yapa	Development Officer	dhanushkay@gmail.com


Responsibilities and functions of the Internal Affairs Unit

Examine current procedures and circulars to identify systemic bottlenecks within the institution and simplify them to enhance operational efficiency.
Conduct Corruption Risk Assessments (CRAs) to identify areas in the institution vulnerable to corruption and unethical conduct and take targeted preventive measures
Develop and implement an Institutional Integrity Action Plan outlining specific anticorruption objectives and strategies tailored to the institution’s needs.
Ensure full compliance with national anti-corruption goals by aligning institutional policies and practices with the National Anti-Corruption Action Plan.
Conduct regular compliance reviews to assess the institution’s compliance with national and international anti-corruption laws, including the Anti-Corruption Act No. 9 of 2023, and identify areas for improvement.
Ensure compliance with Asset Declaration requirements for all public officials and employees, and manage conflicts of interest in accordance with CIABOC regulations and the Anti-Corruption Act No. 9 of 2023.
Establish a secure system to receive and manage complaints related to corruption and unethical conduct in the institution; ensure that all such complaints are promptly addressed by relevant officials or units; and provide regular feedback to the parties involved, ensuring transparency and accountability. If necessary, refer relevant facts,
findings or information to the CIABOC for investigation under the Anti-Corruption Act.
Develop and publish a Citizen’s Charter outlining services provided by the institution.
Establish and enforce policies that promote ethical governance, including a standardized code of conduct to be adhered to by public officials.
Implement measures, including training and awareness creation, to motivate employees to commit to anti-corruption principles.
Act as the institutional focal point for the National Anti-Corruption Integrity Assessment, ensuring that the institution participates in and aligns with the integrity assessment processes, as guided by CIAВОС and the national anti-corruption framework.
Maintain liaison with the CIABOC to receive ongoing guidance and support in executing the Unit’s duties.
Produce periodic and annual reports summarizing the IAU’s activities, progress in anticorruption initiatives, challenges faced, and recommendations for further actions.
Collaborate with private sector stakeholders to plan and implement integrity development programs







2	Procedure to be followed to access information
E සිத
3	Information Application (RTI-01)	E සි த
4	Appeal to the Designated Officer (RTI-10)
E සි த
5	Details of members in contact with
the Right to Information Commission
E සි த
Designated Officer

Mr.H.M.J.M.Herath
Commissioner General of Registration of Persons
Department for Registration of Persons
10 th Floor ,
Subuthipura rd ,
Suhurupaya,
Battaramulla .

 Telephone : 011 286 2 255
 Fax : 011 286 2 198
 email : com.general.drp@gmail.com
Information Officer
member-info
Mrs. S.A Eranthika W. Kularathne
Commissionor(Operation)
Department for Registration of Persons

 Tel : 011 5226104
 Fax : 011 2862231
 email : rd@drp.lk
Department for Registration of Persons,
Suhurupaya,
Subuthipura rd,
Battaramulla.

Useful Links
Ministry of Digital Economy
Department of Immigration and Emigration
Registrar General's Department
State Ministry of Home Affairs
Gov.lk
Right to Information Commission of Sri Lanka
Our Services
Obtaining NIC
Verification of information on NIC
ICAO Standard Studio Details
Other services
Contacts



Home
 Contact Details
Contact Details
Call center

If you have questions concerning your national identity card or want to learn more about the services provided by the Department for Registration of Persons, you can phone the numbers indicated below between 8.30 a.m. and 4.15 p.m. on weekdays.

Telephone :

for inquiries regarding National Identity Card details : (011)5226126
for inquiries on other details : (011)5226100
Fax : (011) 2862290

email : info@drp.lk


Head Office 



Is there a specific procedure for obtaining a photograph of a disabled person for a National Identity card? How do I ask for information about it?
In cases where it is inconvenient to take a disabled person to a registered studio to take an ICAO standard National Identity card photograph, a photographer can be invited to the home after discussing with the nearest studio.
Further information with regard to such a situation could be inquired on the phone number 0115226174.